.\" $Header: nrchbar.1,v 1.2 87/03/31 16:33:02 bobl Exp $
.TH NRCHBAR 1 "" "" "" "ONLINE"
.SH NAME
nrchbar \- insert n/troff-style change bars in a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
nrchbar [\-a] [\-b] [\-d] [oldfile] newfile
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-a
Put change bars around all changed sections, even if they consist of
nothing but *roff commands.
.IP \-b
Do not insert breaks after changed sections.
.IP \-d
Show deleted text by preceding it with "[[" and following it with "]]".
.SH DESCRIPTION
Nrchbar
inserts commands suitable for
nroff(1)
or
troff(1)
(hereafter, "*roff") to produce "change bars" denoting
differences between oldfile and newfile.
It sends the result to standard output.
.LP
If
oldfile
is defaulted,
nrchbar
assumes that its standard
input will contain differences between
oldfile
and
newfile
in
diff(1)
format.
If
oldfile
is given, then
nrchbar
will run
diff(1)
on both files and use the output generated.
.LP
By default, nrchbar ignores changes to sections containing nothing
but *roff commands, which it takes to be any lines beginning with "\.".
You can override this with the \-a option.
.LP
Nrchbar inserts *roff ".mc" commands to provide the change
bars.
This will place a character to the far right of each changed section.
This character is a "+" for added sections, a "|" for
modified sections, and a "-" for deleted sections.
.LP
By default, the text of deleted sections does not appear, but the
\-d option will cause it to be inserted, surrounded by "[[" and "]]".
.LP
Also by default, nrchbar puts a break (".br") command after each
changed section.
This is the only way to guarantee that deletions and small changes
get flagged.
The \-b option directs the program not to insert these breaks.
It makes the text look more like *roffed
newfile, but means that some change bars won't appear where
they should.
.\".SH PRONUNCIATION
.\"NERCH-bar
.\".SH ETYMOLOGY
.\"NRoff CHange BAR
.SH "SEE ALSO"
nroff(1), troff(1)
.SH BUGS
"." is always assumed to denote *roff commands.
Nrchbar knows nothing about the ".cc" command.
.LP
The need for the \-b hack would disappear if there were a way
to tell *roff "Turn off the change bar character at
immediately after you put out this one.".
A horizontal "\.wh", perhaps?
.LP
The \.mc command doesn't always work, especially with diversions.
This is actually a *roff bug, but you ought to know about it.
.LP
Nrchbar may mess up tables, lists, or displays.
For a really polished change bar document, you may want to edit
its output before sending it to *roff.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Unix version by:

Bob Lewis
Test Systems Strategies, Inc.
8205 SW Creekside Pl.
Beaverton, OR  97005
(503) 643-9281
\&...!tektronix!tessi!bobl or bobl@tessi.UUCP

Atari ST version by:

Bill Rosenkranz
rosenkra%c1yankee@convex.com
.fi
.EX
