[               __          || || ||   ]
[ Lineout      /__\         || || ||   ]
[ proudly     //  \\        || || ||   ]
[_presents:__// /'-----\  OUTLINE 2007_]
[            \\ \,-----/   / | || | \  ]
[             \\__//       |/  ||  \|  ]
[______________\__/____________________]
[                                      ]
[    demo party optimized for atari    ]
[______________________________________]
[                                      ]
[ Friday, March 25 14:00               ]
[                  -                   ]
[               Monday, March 28 18:00 ]
[______________________________________]
[                                      ]
[         Te Boomsgoed, Braamt         ]
[           The Netherlands            ]
[______________________________________]


----------
INVITATION
----------
We are happy to invite you to Outline!
Outline is an Atari demoscene party that
will take place at Easter 2005 in the
east of Holland.

The party will be a great opportunity
to show your creative skills, have a
beer with your friends and ofcourse we
will provide enough space so you can
use or show your hardware and software.

Although Outline is mainly an Atari
oriented event, we are also welcoming
like minded sceners using other
platforms for creative purposes.


-----------------------------
PARTY LOCATION AND FACILITIES
-----------------------------
The location for Outline 2005 is:

Kampeerboerderij "Te Boomsgoed"
Langestraat 24
7047 AP Braamt
The Netherlands
http://www.teboomsgoed.nl/

Braamt is a very small village in the
east of Holland, near the German border.
The area around the partyplace is mainly
in agricultural use or forest.

Te Boomsgoed is a traditional farmhouse
converted to a group accomodation. We
are renting one of the two main halls,
and the sleeping area above it. There
are toilets and showers in the main
building. There's another building some
10 meters away which will soon be
demolished and rebuilt, but since there
are still some legal issues to be dealt
with before this can take place we might
have this building available for the
party too (keep your fingers crossed!).

In between the two buildings is a huge
terrace, to the sides are a football
field, a campsite, caravans and huts
which you could rent if you're bringing
the family, a minigolf court, a horse
barn and school, and plenty parking
spaces.

There are busstops at a few minutes
walking distance from the partyplace,
but the nearest trainstation is 7.5km
away and it's a bit tricky to get from
there to Braamt. We therefore advise you
to take the train to "Doetinchem De
Huet" and give us a call so we can send
a car to pick you up. Ofcourse we'll
also return you to the station after the
party.

There's a supermarket about 150 meters
from the party location. Also nearby is
the "Braamse Gat", a lake with bungalow
park, and a pub. Quality restaurants,
including Havoc's favourite Chinese
place, are in nearby Zeddam (3km), as
well as the oldest windmill in the
country. A little further away is the
city of Doetinchem (6km), where you can
find many shops, restaurants and pubs.

Ofcourse we will provide the usual food
delivery options such as pizza, kebab,
fries, etc, and you can also buy cool
drinks for very reasonable prices at the
party place.

The main hall has suitable audio
equipment, and a permament beamer setup
with dedicated screen. There's a table
and chair for every visitor, and some
relaxing benches as well (how many will
vary a lot depending on the number of
visitors). We will provide a basic
selection of cooled drinks, and those
who visited PMP will be happy to hear
there's a kitchen table and
possibilities for a campfire.
Unfortunately we are lacking funds to
dig a pond for the PMP duckies, but you
can once again put up a tent or caravan
outside the party place if you prefer
that over the regular indoor sleeping
area.


-------
TICKETS
-------

A ticket for the entire party (4 days
and 3 nights) costs:
- Presales                       45 EURO
- At the door                    55 EURO

A single day ticket (valid for 24 hours
excluding the sleeping area) costs:
- Presales                       12 EURO
- At the door                    15 EURO


PLEASE NOTICE:

It is possible to rent private sleeping
facilities for groups of 2 upto 10
individuals for a reasonable price.
Contact Havoc for a price quote. If you
do not make such reservations, the
organisers will assign you to a sleeping
place based on the date you payed your
ticket (those who pay first will be
assigned to the more luxurious
facilities ofcourse).

There are no discounts possible on the
entry fees except those mentioned above.
Presales tickets must be payed in
advance.

We realize that these prices may be
slightly higher than sceners got used to
in recent years. This is mainly because
the party is held at a commercial
location, unlike previous parties which
were usually in schools, universities or
clubhouses. We are convinced that the
facilities offered by such a location
will compensate for the higher fee.

We would also like to stress that even
though the party location is commercial,
the organising team is working on a
strictly non-profit base. Any profit the
party will generate will flow directly
into the competition prize fund, and any
money left after the competitions will
be donated to a worthy cause. For
example, after Outline 2005 we donated
the leftover pennies to Outline 2006.


----------------
ORDERING TICKETS
----------------
You can order tickets five ways:

- By transferring the correct amount
  to the following bank account:

  Account holder: Peter van Rijn
  Account number: 8296429
  Bank name: Postbank, The Netherlands

- By sending the correct amount to the
  following address:

  Peter van Rijn
  Jekerstraat 164
  7523 VT Enschede
  The Netherlands

  You can send currencies other than
  euros, but please make sure to send
  enough to cover exchange fees. Please
  do not send coins, we will give back
  change cash when you arrive at the
  partyplace. Please refer to your local
  post office for appropriate insurance
  options.

- By paying cash to one of the
  organisers.

- By pre-order. This option is only
  available if none of the other options
  work for you, and you have met at
  least one of the organisers face to
  face. People known to the organisers
  can order tickets for unknown persons
  though.

  The e-mail address for pre-orders is:

  p.vanrijn (at) home.nl

- We are currently reviewing the
  possibility and demand to set up a
  PayPal account in order to make online
  payment possible. Please inform the
  organisers if you are interested in
  this option.

- By PayPal. For credit card payments,
please use:

p.vanrijn (at) home.nl

Please add 3.4% + 0,35EUR to cover the
PayPal fee.

For PayPal to PayPal (fee-less)
transfers, you can try:

pvrijn (at) hotmail.com

If you try to use the fee-less option,
please keep in mind that we cannot
possibly accept transfers that involve
fees, because that would force us to
upgrade our account- effectively
rendering it useless for any further
fee-less transfer. Thank you for your
understanding.

In all cases, please mention the names,
nicks and e-mail adresses of the people
you are buying tickets for.

After receiving your payment, we will
send you a confirmation of your
reservation by e-mail.


----------
TRAVELLING
----------
By plane: The preferred airport for
travelling to this party is Amsterdam/
Schiphol. Flights from nearly every
major airport on the planet arrive there
on a daily basis, and travelling from
the airport to the partyplace is easy
because of the excellent railway
connections. A trainticket from Schiphol
to the partyplace is ~18 Euro each way,
or 11 Euro for Dutch students and people
travelling along with them.

Travellers from the UK and Sweden will
be interested to know that Ryanair has
some pretty cheap offers for travelling
to Airport Niederrhein, which is only 45
km from the partyplace. If you contact
the organisers well in advance, pickups
can be arranged.

Other airports within driving distance
from the party place include Rotterdam
and Eindhoven. If you can get a flight
to one of these airports for a lower
price than you would pay for travelling
to Schiphol, the organisers can provide
you with information on how to get from
any of these airports to the partyplace.
Contact us for details.

Some indications of ticket costs we have
received from various sources include:-

Stockholm   430 SEK
London       33 UKP
Manchester   54 UKP
Helsinki    175 EUR
Marseille   168 EUR
Geneva      235 CHF
Berlin       58 EUR
Oslo        118 EUR
Los Angeles 440 EUR
Kathmandu   644 EUR
Melbourne   850 EUR
Paramaribo 1493 EUR

Some of these prices were found on
regular online booking systems, so there
is a very good chance you will be able
to find a better deal from a cheap
vendor in your own country.

Please contact the organisers if you
need any assistance regarding flights to
the party or extending your stay in the
Netherlands.

By bus: Walk from busstop "Buiting
Braamt" towards the roundabout and
proceed to walk into the village. First
you'll pass one road to the right, then
the road bends sharply to the right,
then another exit to the right, and
finally the partyplace will appear on
right hand side (look for the minigolf).
Please refer to http://www.9292ov.nl
for an up to date timetable.

By train: The stations "Doetinchem De
Huet" and "Emmerich (Germany)" are
located at driving distance from the
partyplace. Please refer to
http://www.ns.nl or http://www.db.de for
an up to date timetable.

By car:

>From the west and north(east): Get on
the highway to Doetinchem (A18), and
take exit 3 (Doetinchem, Zelhem,
Zeddam). Follow signs for Braamt/Zeddam
(N316). Turn to the right on the 2nd
roundabout. Stay on this street, it
bends to the right after 100m, until you
see the Te Boomsgoed sign on your right
hand side. Welcome to the partyplace!

>From the south and east: Travel to the
city of Emmerich, Germany. Most likely
you will be taking exit 3 (Emmerich am
Rhein, Kleve, 's-Heerenberg) on the
highway running from the Ruhrgebiet to
Arnhem and Amsterdam (A3). Upon exiting
the highway, follow signs for
's-Heerenberg (N316). Stay on the N316
as it takes you through the villages of
's-Heerenberg and Zeddam, and turn left
on the roundabout near Braamt. Stay on
this street, it bends to the right after
100m, until you see a Te Boomsgoed sign
on your right hand side. Welcome to the
partyplace!


-----------
PARTY RULES
-----------
First of all, we would like to say we
have a lot of confidence in the visitors
we are inviting to this party. Some of
the organisers have been going to Atari
related Easter parties for more than a
decade, and in all those years the
number of unacceptable incidents has
been negligible.

However, we feel that setting a few
clear guidelines will help everyone to
make the party even more enjoyable.

- The organisers are very tolerant, but
  there are limits. Please treat other
  people and their property with
  respect. Illegal and/or destructive
  behaviour will not be accepted and can
  lead to removal from the party.

- No smoking in the main hall or
  sleeping area. Please step outside or
  use the reserved spaces as appointed
  by the organisation. Weather allowing,
  chairs and benches are allowed to be
  taken outside to the terrace.

- Do not use electric waterboilers,
  microwaves, barbecues and other
  devices that could possibly endanger
  the stability of computer systems
  within the partyplace. Please contact
  the organisers before setting up such
  equipment.

- We are only renting half of the space
  available at "Te Boomsgoed". Please do
  not install systems or sleep in areas
  other than the main hall or the
  sleeping area.

Thank you for your participation in
making this party a success.


-------------------
CONTACT INFORMATION
-------------------
Mail address:

Outline 2007
Peter van Rijn
Jekerstraat 164
7523 VT Enschede

E-mail:

p.vanrijn (at) home.nl

Telephone/SMS:

+31-6-41148027 (International)
06-41148027 (The Netherlands)
(also during the party)

Website:

http://outline.scene.nl

IRC:

#atariscne on IRCNet


-----------
FINAL WORDS
-----------
We hope this invitation text will
provide you with a lot of useful
information about attending our party.
Feel free to ask the organisers for
further details if you need them for any
reason.

See you soon in Braamt!

Outline 2007 Organisation Team
