.TH CALLSTAT 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
callstat.tos - digest calllog.sys and produce silly statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
callstat [-cdhsu]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Callstat expects to be run from the directory which contains
ctdltabl.sys.  It will munch your call log (#audit\\calllog.sys)
and produce pretty graphs and tables, showing how many people at
what baud rates have called and for how long they were connected.
.PP
If callstat encounters weirdness in your call log, it will complain
about it and exit.  The usual problem is that the system has crashed
while someone was logged in, resulting in an entry in the call log
which has a login time but no logout time.  Use an editor to fix this
or any other weirdness, and run callstat again.
.PP
Callstat keeps an ongoing statistics file for its own uses, called
calldata.sys, which lives in your #sysdir.  The main output file
is callstat.sys, which is written to the #auditdir.  In addition,
a supplementary file may be written in callbaud.sys, giving some
extra information about calls at each hour of the day, for all baud
rates.  This is REALLY esoteric stuff.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -c
Write callbaud.sys.
.IP -d
Debug flag.
.IP -h
Display a brief help message.
.IP -s
Don't count sysConsole activity in the statistics.  If the Sysop logs in a
lot, the results will probably be skewed towards shorter average connections
and such-like.
.IP -u
Delete your calllog.sys and update the running statistics file calldata.sys.
.SH NOTES
Callstat doesn't do anything with file logging yet.
.PP
The program is a bit vague when giving warnings about bad stuff in
your call log; you have to go searching through it to find the error.
.PP	
Callstat can be run from a shellscript as a nightly event; you may
wish to run it without the -u flag for this purpose.  It will still
produce the same statistics, but will leave your call log alone.  When
you want to delete the call log, just manually run 'callstat -u', to
properly update the running totals file.
.SH BUGS
None that we know of; just "misfeatures".
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#auditdir\\callstat.sys\ \ \ 'u
callstat.tos	The silly statistics generator.
.br
ctdltabl.sys	The system tables file.
.br
#auditdir\\calllog.sys	The call log.
.br
#auditdir\\callstat.sys	The main silly statistics file.
.br
#auditdir\\callbaud.sys	The additional silly statistics
.br
	file.
.br
#sysdir\\calldata.sys	Callstat's running totals.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHOR
Royce Howland
.SH HISTORY
Callstat was written by Royce Howland some time after he switched
to orc's STadel from his old BBS (which ran on a Basis 108 Apple ][ clone).
He missed the neat histogram features he had hacked into his old BBS,
and so wrote callstat.
.PP
The title banner, "The Antithesystem Memorial Histogram", is meant
to be a reminder of the heady days of early-80's BBSing in Edmonton,
when the Round Table and the Antithesystem were the two best
conversation boards in town.  Unfortunately, only RT has survived;
may Anti rest in peace.
