.TH CITFS 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
citfs.tos - spool Fnordadel sendfiles and file requests
.SH SYNOPSIS
citfs -s <system> <file1> ... [fileN]
.br
citfs -r <system> <room> <targetdir> <file1> ... [fileN]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Citfs allows you to queue up network file sends and requests without
having to bring up Fnordadel.  It takes all needed parameters
from the command line, so it can be used in non-interactive
situations like from a batch file or whatever.
.PP
Citfs expects to be run from the directory containing ctdltabl.sys.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -s
Do a sendfile.
.IP -r
Do a file request.
.IP <system>
The nodename of the system in question.  If the
nodename has space characters in it, substitute '_'
(underscore) characters for the spaces.
.IP <room>
This option is used only with a file request.  It
specfies the name of the room on the other system
from which to request files.
.IP <targetdir>
This is the path-spec of a directory on your
storage device in which to put the received files.
This, too, is only used with '-r' (file request).
.IP "<file1> ... [fileN]"
One or more filenames to send or request.  Wildcards
may be passed in (like "*.c"); make sure if you
want to pass a wildcard to citfs and you are using
a shell which might expand wildcards itself that
you quote the wildcard filename, e.g.
.sp 1
citfs -s RT 'file*.c'
.SH NOTES
You must specify only ONE of -s or -r options, obviously.
.SH BUGS
If the <room> has spaces in it, citfs will currently mis-parse
the command line and produce erroneous results.
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#netdir\\{nn}.nfs\ \ \ 'u
.br
citfs.tos	The file send & request spooler.
.br
#netdir\\{nn}.nfs	Send/request queue for net node 'nn'.
.br
ctdltabl.sys	Tables file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHOR
Citfs was written by Adrian Ashley for Fnordadel.
