.TH CLOG 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
clog.tos - view the user log
.SH SYNOPSIS
clog [-acpto] [username] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
Clog allows the Sysop to view the contents of his user log.  It must
be run from the directory in which ctdltabl.sys resides.  Its output
is sent to stdout, which may be redirected (if running from a shell).
.PP
When run without arguments, clog displays each user's name, and
various bits of information associated with his/her account, including
date of last call, column width, Expert mode ("Exp"), Aide status
("Aid") or Sysop status ("Sys"), network privs ("Net"), et cetera.
.PP
The users are displayed in the order in which they are stored in the
user log.
.SH OPTIONS
The following arguments affect clog's behaviour.  They may be mixed,
though some of them are mutually contradictory (e.g. -p and -t).
.IP -a
Display only users who have Aide status.
.IP -c
Display the entire name field with unprintable characters
shown as '?' marks -- useful for finding aliases into which
illegal characters have somehow slipped.
.IP -o
Sort the output in order of last call, most recent first.
.IP -p
Display the users' passwords in addition to the usual
information.
.IP -t
Display only the users' names, in a three-column format.
.IP [username]
One or more optional user names may be passed to clog on the
command line.  Clog will only display the information for the
specified user(s).  This is useful for finding a password for
one specific user, for example.
.SH NOTES
The -c option is of limited usefulness.  Illegal characters shouldn't
get in there in the first place.
.SH BUGS
If a name passed on the command line contains any spaces,
it will be mistakenly parsed into separate names which probably won't
match any account.
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#sysdir\\ctdllog.sys\ \ \ 'u
.br
clog.tos	Userlog viewer program.
.br
ctdltabl.sys	Tables file.
.br
#sysdir\\ctdllog.sys	The user log file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHORS
Originally written by Hue, Jr., as part of Citadel-86.
.PP
Additional modifications for STadel by Davin Parsons.
.PP
Further modifications and enhancements for Fnordadel by Adrian
Ashley and Royce Howland.
