.TH COLLIDE 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
collide.tos - check for user log hash table collisions
.SH SYNOPSIS
collide
.SH DESCRIPTION
Fnordadel uses a "hash table" for speedy lookup of names during
login time.  A hash function essentially turns a string (say, a
user name) into a (hopefully unique) integer, which can then be used
to index into an array of data (say, user log entries).  This saves
time searching the array.  Unfortunately, it can
happen that two totally different names will hash to the same integer
value.  If someone tries to login using a name which hashes to the
same value as an existing name, Fnordadel will report that "We
already have a <name>".
.PP
Collide checks to see if supplied user names "collide" with names
currently in the user log.  Simply type a name at the "name>" prompt,
and collide will tell you which name, if any, the given name collides
with.  To quit the program, hit a <CR> at the name prompt.
.PP
Collide must be run from the directory containing ctdltabl.sys.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH NOTES
We hope to do away with the need for this program, someday.  Until
then, tough doughnuts.  (-:
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#sysdir\\ctdllog.sys\ \ \ 'u
.br
collide.tos	Userlog collision detector.
.br
#sysdir\\ctdllog.sys	Userlog file.
.br
ctdltabl.sys	The system tables file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHOR
Collide was written by David Parsons as part of the STadel package.
.PP
Minor stuff for Fnordadel by Adrian Ashley and Royce Howland.
