.TH DOORWRAP 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
doorwrap.tos - wrapper for doors that don't take arguments properly
.SH SYNOPSIS
doorwrap doorname [args]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Arguments may be passed to programs using a variety of internal
conventions.  Atari has sanctioned one method, known as ARGV, and this
is what Fnordadel uses to pass arguments to doors.  However, we have seen
programs that do not like this, and expect arguments in some other fashion.
Doorwrap is intended to allow you to run these doors by taking the
arguments you give it and passing them to the door in the old-fashioned
way.
.PP
To use doorwrap, simply prepend the full pathname of the doorwrap program
to the entry in ctdldoor.sys for the offending door program.  For example,
if you have a program called foobar.tos which isn't taking its arguments
correctly, and its line in ctdldoor.sys looks like
.PP
foobar  ut  c:\\blort\\foobar.tos -dv
.PP
you may try changing the line to
.PP
foobar  ut  c:\\fnordbin\\doorwrap.tos c:\\blort\\foobar.tos -dv
.PP
.SH NOTES
There is no guarantee, of course, that this program will solve any given
problem, but it's worth a try.
.PP
The ``old-fashioned way'' of passing arguments enforces a limit of 126
characters on command lines.  This shouldn't be a problem.
.PP
Doorwrap does not pass the environment to the door program, so if the door
program is expecting the read environment variables it will be out of luck.
This was done on purpose.
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHOR
Adrian Ashley (elim@secret).
