.TH FLIPBITS 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
flipbits.tos - toggle user log privilege flags
.SH SYNOPSIS
flipbits
.SH DESCRIPTION
Flipbits allows the Sysop to set or clear, en masse, the net, mail and/or
door privilege flags of the entire user log.  It must
be run from the directory in which ctdltabl.sys resides.
.PP
This program should be run whenever one of the ctdlcnfg.sys parameters
"allnet", "allmail" or "alldoor" is changed.  These parameters affect new
users signing on, but existing users keep the same privilege settings
they had before.  Hence this program, to alter existing log entries.
.PP
When run, the program will prompt for the net privilege flag like so:
.IP
Set the net priv bit?
.PP
If the question is answered "Y", it will then prompt:
.IP
Bestow net privs ('Y') or remove them ('N')?
.PP
The mail and door privilege flags are processed identically in turn.
At this point, the program crunches through the user log and updates
the flag settings as requested.
.PP
All users with Aide or Sysop status are left alone by this program.
Presumably they have been set up correctly in the first place by the
Sysop.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH BUGS
None known (knock on wood veneer).
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#sysdir\\ctdllog.sys\ \ \ 'u
.br
flipbits.tos	Flag toggler program.
.br
ctdlcnfg.sys	The configuration file.
.br
ctdltabl.sys	Tables file.
.br
#sysdir\\ctdllog.sys	The user log file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHORS
Originally written for Fnordadel by Royce Howland.
