.TH LOADNET 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
loadnet.tos - build a net list from dumpnet output
.SH SYNOPSIS
loadnet [-{n}] <dumpnet-output-file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Loadnet takes an ASCII file of output from its companion program,
dumpnet, and automatically enters all the information into your
net list.  It will enter nodes into the net list, complete with all
the configuration information, and will also share all net rooms
with the nodes.  The rooms must all exist beforehand for the
automatic room sharing to work.
.PP
Loadnet must be run from the directory containing ctdltabl.sys.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -{n}
The value to use as the ID# of the last net message
transferred for any shared room, if no value is specified
in the <dumpnet-output-file> for that room.
.IP <dumpnet-output-file>
The file containing dumpnet's output.  This must be supplied.
.SH NOTES
This program is intended to be used when a system changes from
one version of Fnordadel to another.  You shouldn't NEED to use
it, because any conversion SHOULD be done for you by a converter
program, but what the heck.
.PP
You need not ensure that rooms are networked rooms before running
this program; they need only exist, and loadnet will make them
shared.
.PP
The -{n} parameter, which is something you will not normally use, can
have either a positive or negative value.  If negative (i.e. --53,
for example), the value is subtracted from the highest message known
to the system, to arrive at the default message ID#.
.PP
If the value is positive, it is taken to be an absolute message ID#.
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#netdir\\ctdlnet.sys\ \ \ 'u
.br
loadnet.tos		Net list loader.
.br
#netdir\\ctdlnet.sys	The net list.
.br
ctdltabl.sys		The tables file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHORS
Loadnet was written by David Parsons for STadel.
.PP
It was munged and improved by Adrian Ashley and Royce Howland for
the Fnordadel project.
