.TH MAKEZT 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
makezt.tos - make the network loop zap table
.SH SYNOPSIS
makezt
.SH DESCRIPTION
Makezt creates the Fnordadel network loop zap table from
scratch, writing over top of any zap information that may already
have existed.  The zap table's purpose is to refuse replicated
messages that come in from nodes anywhere on the network.  A
message is defined as being a replicate if the date in its header
is earlier than the date of the latest message received from the
same node, in the same room, AND the message's original ID# is less
than the message ID# of the latest message received.
.PP
Makezt will scan the entire message base to build the zap table,
after which time citadel.tos will maintain it automatically (if
you invoke citadel with the '+zap' option, or if you
have '#define zaploops' in your ctdlcnfg.sys).
.PP
Makezt expects to be run from the directory containing ctdltabl.sys.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH NOTES
As makezt runs, it will display a lot of information that you can
safely ignore.  If you ever need to see what is in the zap table,
use scanzt.tos.
.PP
If the message base contains no network messages from any other node,
makezt will not do anything.
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#netdir\\ctdlloop.zap\ \ \ 'u
.br
makezt.tos	The zap table creator.
.br
#netdir\\ctdlloop.zap	The zap table.
.br
#msgdir\\ctdlmsg.sys	The message file.
.br
ctdltabl.sys	The system table file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
.DT
.ta \w'scanzt.man\ \ \ 'u
.br
scanzt.man		Man page for scanzt.tos.
.br
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.br
.SH AUTHORS
David Parsons wrote makezt.tos for STadel.
.PP
Adrian Ashley and Royce Howland did precious little to it for the
Fnordadel project.
