.TH MCHANGE 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
mchange.tos - change the number of available Fnordadel mailslots.
.SH SYNOPSIS
mchange <newsize>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mchange will increase or decrease the number of mail messages
available to all users (including the Sysop).  Give it the desired new
size on the command line, and mchange will munge away, resizing
things as required.  When finished it will remind you to change
ctdlcnfg.sys accordingly and run configur.tos.  If you don't, your
system will suffer a terrifying end at the hands of the Ruggieman.
.PP
Mchange expects to be run from the directory containing your
ctdltabl.sys file.  
.SH OPTIONS
.IP <newsize>
The desired new number of mailslots.  There can be no
less than 1 and no more than 999.
.SH NOTES
If the number of mailslots is being decreased, mchange will gleefully
expunge any user's N oldest messages, where N is the number
of slots being removed.  Nothing else can be done.  As the Sysop,
you should archive any messages you can't bear to be parted with.
It would be a nice gesture to notify your users as well.  Perhaps
in Mail>...?
.PP
Please PLEASE **PLEASE** make a backup of your system before running this
program.  It's not that we expect it to blow up, it's just that Murphy
is everywhere.
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#roomdir\\room0001.sys\ \ \ 'u
.br
mchange.tos	The mailslot muncher.
.br
#roomdir\\room0001.sys	The Mail> room file.
.br
ctdlcnfg.sys	The configuration file.
.br
ctdltabl.sys	The system tables file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Adrian Ashley and Royce Howland for the Fnordadel
project.
.PP
Our thanks to Hue, Jr., author of Citadel-86, for the original
concept of eliminating the barrier on the number of mailslots.
