.TH MSHRINK 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
mshrink.tos - shrink the the Fnordadel message file
.SH SYNOPSIS
mshrink [pathname]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Mshrink will determine the point (in kilobytes) in your message
file, ctdlmsg.sys, at which the next message will be saved.  The
program will give you the option of reducing the size of the
ctdlmsg.sys to that point.  If you answer "yes", it will cut the
message base, prompt you to change your ctdlcnfg.sys file as
required, and to run configur.tos.  If you do not do these two
things, the fleas of a thousand camels will infest your storage
devices.  I.e., it will be a Bad Thing(tm).
.PP
Mshrink expects to be run from the directory containing your
ctdltabl.sys file.  
.SH OPTIONS
.IP [pathname]
The full pathname of a directory in which to create the
temporary message file during compaction.  See NOTES.
Examples: "c:\\tmp", "a:\\", "e:\\foo\\bar\\baz"
.SH NOTES
Due to the way all Citadels organise their messages, it is not
feasible to shrink the message base to any arbitrary size.  Thus
if you desire some particular size, you will need to run this
program regularly and wait until the current message pointer
gets close to the size you want.  Then give mshrink free rein to
do its worst.
.PP
During the shrinkage, mshrink will create a temporary file of
the new, smaller size.  You must, therefore, have enough room
on your drive(s) to hold both the old and* new message files during
the compaction process.  If you don't have room, as you might not
if you run on floppy drive(s), you may use the optional command
line parameter to specify the full pathname of a directory in which
to put the temporary file (e.g. another floppy drive or a RAM disk).
.PP	
BACKUP your system!  If you run this program without first backing
up your system, the Imp of the Perverse may well murder your system
and dance on its grave, singing "Hallelujah!"  And it won't be our
fault.
.PP
When mshrink gives your message file the chop, you will lose
old messages on the system which inhabited the region of the file
that was purged.
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#msgdir\\ctdlmsg.sys\ \ \ 'u
.br
mshrink.tos	The message file compactor.
.br
#msgdir\\ctdlmsg.sys	The message file.
.br
ctdlcnfg.sys	The configuration file.
.br
ctdltabl.sys	The system tables file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Adrian Ashley and Royce Howland for the Fnordadel
project.
