.TH NCHANGE 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
nchange.tos - change the number of network rooms shareable per net node
.SH SYNOPSIS
nchange <newsize>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Nchange will expand or shrink the maximum number of allowed
shared rooms.  Give it the desired new size on the command line,
and nchange will munch away on your network file, ctdlnet.sys.
When finished it will remind you to change ctdlcnfg.sys as
necessary and run configur.tos.  If you don't, your system will
explode in flames.  Don't try it to find out.
.PP
Nchange expects to be run from the directory containing your
ctdltabl.sys file.  
.SH OPTIONS
.IP <newsize>
The desired new number of shared room slots.  There must be at least 1
and no more than 999.
.SH NOTES
If the number of shared rooms is being decreased, nchange will
first check the existing shared rooms for each network node, to
make sure that the requested compression can be done.  If too
many rooms are being shared with any one node, nchange will
complain and permit you to abort the process, or compress things
to the smallest available size.
.PP
Please remember, as usual, to backup your system before you run this.
If you don't and something happens, don't call us, or we'll call you
several nasty things.
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#netdir\\ctdlnet.sys\ \ \ 'u
.br
nchange.tos	The network room resizer.
.br
#netdir\\ctdlnet.sys	The network file.
.br
ctdlcnfg.sys	The configuration file.
.br
ctdltabl.sys	The system tables file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Adrian Ashley and Royce Howland for the Fnordadel
project.
.PP
Our thanks to Hue, Jr., author of Citadel-86, for the original
concept of eliminating the barrier on the number of shared rooms.
