.TH POPULAR 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
popular.tos - print room popularity statistics and stuff
.SH SYNOPSIS
popular [-am[s{zbp}]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Popular is an ancient feeping creaturism, essentially.  It scans the
user log and room data, and compiles a table showing how many people
have forgotten which public rooms.
.PP
Popular expects to be run from the directory containing ctdltabl.sys.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -a
Count all* rooms, not just public ones.  Useful only with
the -m option.
.IP -m
Count the number of messages in each room.  This will make
popular scan the entire message base in order to determine
the number of messages in each room.
.IP -s{zbp}
Sort the output according to the sub-argument specified.
.sp 1
z - Sort by % of users forgetting the room
.br
p - Sort by # of messages in the room
.br
b - Sort by both
.sp
The default behaviour is 'p'.
.SH NOTES
With Fnordadel 1.30 and higher, the message base scan is somewhat
redundant, and will be done away with some day.  We have left it in
so far partly as a sanity check for the room files (to make sure
they're recording the proper number of messages in themselves),
and partly out of laziness.
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#sysdir\\ctdlmsg.sys\ \ \ 'u
.br
popular.tos		The room popularity tabulator.
.br
#sysdir\\ctdlmsg.sys	The message base.
.br
#sysdir\\ctdllog.sys	The user log.
.br
ctdltabl.sys		The system tables file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHORS
Popular was, we think, originally written by Hue, Jr., for
Citadel-86.
.PP
It was modified by David Parsons for STadel.
.PP
It was further modified and enhanced by Adrian Ashley and Royce
Howland for Fnordadel.
