.TH RCHANGE 1 foo bar "FNORDADEL BBS SOFTWARE"
.SH NAME
rchange.tos - change the number of available Fnordadel rooms
.SH SYNOPSIS
rchange <newsize>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Rchange will expand or shrink the set of Fnordadel room files,
roomnnnn.sys.  Give it the desired new size on the command line,
and rchange will munge away, creating or deleting room files as
required.  When finished it will remind you to change ctdlcnfg.sys
accordingly and run configur.tos.  If you don't, your system will
die a horrible death.  Believe it.  "Or not" is not an option.
.PP
Rchange expects to be run from the directory containing your
ctdltabl.sys file.  
.SH OPTIONS
.IP <newsize>
The desired new number of rooms.  There can be no fewer
than 3 active rooms (Lobby>, Mail> and Aide> are non-negotiable),
and no more than 9999.
.SH NOTES
If the number of rooms is being decreased, rchange will first
check the rooms that will have to be deleted, to see if they are
in use or not.  If any of them are in use, rchange will complain
and give you the option of aborting the operation, or shrinking
the number of rooms up to the point where the last active room was found.
.PP
Please make a backup before you run this.  Just Do It.
.PP
A future enhancement will allow rchange to shuffle rooms so
that all active rooms are contiguous.  This will permit greater
compression than may be possible now.
.SH FILES
.DT
.ta \w'#roomdir\\roomnnnn.sys\ \ \ 'u
.br
rchange.tos		The room resizer.
.br
#roomdir\\roomnnnn.sys	The room files.
.br
ctdltabl.sys		The system tables file.
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
The Fnordadel Reference Manual
.SH AUTHORS
Written by Adrian Ashley and Royce Howland for the Fnordadel
project.
.PP
Thanks to Hue, Jr., author of Citadel-86, for the original
concept of eliminating the barrier on the number of rooms.
