.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" $Header: ar.man,v 2.00x3 Jun 15 1994 jerry Geiger$
.\" $Log:	ar.man,v $
.de Tt
.\" two tags and one description
.\" version, with indent as $3. 2 tags MUST be quoted to include blanks
.\" tags are bold;
.br
.if \nD>0 \{\
.	sp \nD
\}
.in 0.8i
.in +\nI
.if \n(.$>0 .if !"$1"" \&\fB $1 \fR
.br
.if \n(.$>1 .if !"$2"" \&\fB $2 \fR
.br
.if \n(.$=3 .in +$3
..
.de Tp
.\" IP extension  one , two (tag , indent), three (tag, hint, indent)
.\"   four(tag, brace, argument, brace) five (tag, brace, argument, brace,
.\"     hint)
.\"    or six arguments: (tag, brace, argument, brace, hint, indent)
.\" Tp one  [y three z]  [(five)]  6
.br
.if \nD>0 \{\
.	sp \nD
\}
.in 0.8i
.in +\nI
.if \n(.$>0 .if !"$1"" \&\fB $1 \fR
.if \n(.$>3 \&\fR$2\fI$3\fR$4
.if \n(.$>4 .if !"$5"" \&\fR   $5 \fR
.if \n(.$=3 .if !"$2"" \&\fR   $2 \fR
.br
.if \n(.$=6 .in +$6
.if \n(.$=3 .in +$3
.if \n(.$=2 .in +$2
.if \n(.$=4 .in +0.8i
.if \n(.$=5 .in +0.8i
.if \n(.$<2 .in +0.8i
..
.TH AR 1 "Sozobon Programmer's Manual" "v 2.00x3" "Jun 15 1994"
.\" remove ONLINE from above line for a printable manual
.SH NAME
ar - SozobonX archive utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ar
.RI < command >[ options ] 
.RI [ pos-file ] 
.RI < archive > 
.RI [< file "> ...]"
.br
or:
.br
.B ar
.RI -< command >[ options ] 
.RI [ pos-file ] 
.RI < archive > 
.RI [< file "> ...]"
.br
or:
.br
.B ar
.RI -< command > 
.RI -[ options ] 
.RI [ pos-file ] 
.RI < archive > 
.RI [< file "> ...]"
.sp
.B ar
.RB { Vhtdmrqpx }[ vcCLousl ][{ abi
.RI  }< pos-file >] 
.RI < archive > 
.RI [< file "> ...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I ar
command is used to maintain object module libraries.  It
makes it possible to gather a large group of object files into a
single library for ease of use.  It is a standard utility on all
platforms.
.PP
The operation of the selected command can be modified by other
option characters that may follow it.  The name of the archive to be
manipulated follows the option characters.  Some commands also
require (or allow) the names of files in the archive to follow the
archive name on the command line.  The following commands are
supported.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
valid commands
.PP
help, list and extract:
.Tt --version -V 5
Print detailed Version information to stdout and exit
.Tt --help -h 5
Display usage information and exit.
.Tp -t 5
Print a table of contents.  Possible options are
.RB [ vab ]
.Tp -p 5
Print files from an archive to stdout.	The only possible
option is
.RB [ v ].
.Tp -x 5
Extract files from an archive.	Possible options are
.RB [ voab ].
.PP
manipulate an archive:
.PP
.Tp -d 5
Delete files from an archive.  Possible options are
.RB [ vab ].
.Tp -m 5
Move files within an archive, defaulting to the end of the
archive.  Possible options are
.RB [ vcab ].
.Tp -r 5
Replace files or add new files to an archive, defaulting to
the end of the archive.  Possible options are
.RB [ vcuab ].
.Tp -q 5
Quickly append files to an archive.  Possible options are
.RB [ vc ].
.PP
valid option chars:
.Tp v (verbose) 5
Generally  show  more  information  about  what  ar  is
doing.	 In a table of contents, show information about
the size, mode, etc.
.Tp C 5
Handle all input filenames case sensitive.
.Tp L 5
Make all input filenames lowercase.
.Tp c 5
Do not write the "creating" message, normally printed when a new
archive is created.
.Tp a < pos > "" 5
Begin action after file
.RI < pos >. 
Move or insert the named
files after file
.RI < pos > 
in the archive; delete or print only the
files specified, beginning with the one after file <pos> in
archive.
.Tp b < pos > "" 5
Begin action before file
.RI < pos >. 
Move or insert the named
files before file
.RI < pos > 
in the archive; delete or print only the
files specified, beginning with the one before file <pos> in
archive.
.Tp i < pos > "" 5
Begin action before file
.RI < pos >. 
Same as option 'b'.
.Tp o 5
Keep original date when extracting files.  Set the time stamp
of extraxcted files to the original one from the file in the
archive.
.Tp u 5
Update archive.  Only insert those files into the named
archive that are newer than the files already in the archive, or
that are not present within the archive.
.Tp l 5
ignored for compatibility
.Tp s 5
ignored for compatibility
.SH "SEE ALSO"
	nm(1), ld(1)
.SH BUGS
Without doubt, there are some bugs in this program.  If you
discover one, please report it to maintainer.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Tony Andrews,
Copyright (c) 1988,89,90,91 by Sozobon, Ltd.
.sp
eXtended Version by jerry g geiger
.SH VERSION
	ar V2.00x3   Jun 15 1994
