.\" -*- nroff -*-
.\" man file form for Sozobon binaries
.\" $Header: nm.man, v 2.00x3  May 20 1994  jerry Geiger$
.\" $Log:	nm.man,v $
.\" some macros
.de Tt
.\" two tags and one description
.\" version, with indent as $3. 2 tags MUST be quoted to include blanks
.\" tags are bold;
.br
.if \nD>0 \{\
.	sp \nD
\}
.in 0.8i
.in +\nI
.if \n(.$>0 .if !"$1"" \&\fB $1 \fR
.br
.if \n(.$>1 .if !"$2"" \&\fB $2 \fR
.br
.if \n(.$=3 .in +$3
..
.de Tp
.\" IP extension  one , two (tag , indent), three (tag, hint, indent)
.\"   four(tag, brace, argument, brace) five (tag, brace, argument, brace,
.\"     hint)
.\"    or six arguments: (tag, brace, argument, brace, hint, indent)
.\" Tp one  [y three z]  [(five)]  6
.br
.if \nD>0 \{\
.	sp \nD
\}
.in 0.8i
.in +\nI
.if \n(.$>0 .if !"$1"" \&\fB $1 \fR
.if \n(.$>3 \&\fR$2\fI$3\fR$4
.if \n(.$>4 .if !"$5"" \&\fR   $5 \fR
.if \n(.$=3 .if !"$2"" \&\fR   $2 \fR
.br
.if \n(.$=6 .in +$6
.if \n(.$=3 .in +$3
.if \n(.$=2 .in +$2
.if \n(.$=4 .in +0.8i
.if \n(.$=5 .in +0.8i
.if \n(.$<2 .in +0.8i
..
.TH NM 1 "Sozobon Programmer's Manual" "v 2.00x3" "May 20 1994"
.\" for a printable version remove argument "ONLINE" from above line!!
.SH NAME
.HP
nm - SozobonX  nm display a symbol table for an object module
or archive
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nm
.RB [ - < options >]
.RI < file >
.RI [< file "> ...]"
.sp
.B nm
.RB [ -Vvhg8o ] 
.RI < file >
.RI [< file "> ...]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I nm
nm is a standard utility on many platforms.  It is used to display
the symbol table of an object module or the symbol tables of the
object modules in an archive. 
.sp
The printed table
.sp
<offset in TEXT/DATA/BSS> <type of symbol> <name> 
.br
or
.br
<length of common symbol's object> 
.RB < C > 
<name>
.sp
Example:  test.o:
.br
               00000000 T _testoutfunc
.br
               00000008 C _rest
.PP
With the verbose option enabled, one column is inserted before 
<type of symbol>; the symbol type value in hex notation.  For every
SozobonX module, a '(SozobonX)' message is displayed after the
module name. 
.PP
Example:  test.o:
.br
               (SozobonX)
.br
               00000000 a200 T _testoutfunc
.br
               00000008 a800 C _rest
.sp
The symbol type keys:
.br
The symbol types known to this utility are:
.HP	
'?' Unknown
.HP
'a' This can be any absolute symbol.
.HP
'b' This is a BSS symbol (uninitialized and local variables).
.HP
'd' This is a DATA symbol (initilized variables).
.HP
't' This is a TEXT symbol (a function).
.HP
'C' This is a common symbol (uninitialized global variables).
.HP
'U' This is an undefined used external symbol 
(e.g an external function).
.PP
Uppercase letters refer to globally visible symbols, and lowercase
letters to local symbols. 
.PP
If a GST symbol or ALN special symbol is recognized, this will be
noted in an additional column. 
.PP
The 
.B -8
option shows the symbols as they would look to a program
which knows nothing about SozobonX format. 
.SH OPTIONS
.Tt --version -V 5
Print detailed Version information to stdout and exit
.Tt --help -h 5
Display usage information and exit.
.Tp v (verbose) 5
Force 
.B nm 
to be verbose about what it is doing.
.Tp -g 5
Only list global symbols.
.Tp -8 5
Do not recognize SozobonX format symbols.
.Tt --oldstyle -o 5
Force output to be in the old Sozobon nm format.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
	ar(1), liborder(1), ld(1)
.SH BUGS
Without doubt, there are some bugs in this program.  If you
discover one, please report it to maintainer.
.SH AUTHOR
nm V2.00 Copyright (c) 1988-1991 by Sozobon, Ltd.
For eXtended Version by Jerry Geiger (1992-1994)
.SH VERSION
nm V2.00x3  May 20 1994

