 ______________________________________
[               __          || || ||   ]
[              /__\         || || ||   ]
[             //  \\        || || ||   ]
[____________// /'-----\  OUTLINE 2006_]
[            \\ \,-----/   / | || | \  ]
[             \\__//       |/  ||  \|  ]
[______________\__/____________________]
[                                      ]
[       multiplatform demo party       ]
[______________________________________]
[                                      ]
[ Friday, June 2 12:00                 ]
[                  -                   ]
[                 Monday, June 5 18:00 ]
[______________________________________]
[                                      ]
[          Panoven, Zevenaar           ]
[           The Netherlands            ]
[______________________________________]


----------
INVITATION
----------
We are happy to invite you to Outline!
Outline is a multiplatform demoscene
party that will take place in June 2006
in the east of Holland.

The party will be a great opportunity
to show your creative skills, have a
beer with your friends and ofcourse we
will provide enough space so you can
use or show your hardware and software.

Outline used to be an Atari oriented
event. This year we have expanded our
organising team and changed the date of
the party, in an effort to accomodate
sceners who would traditionally visit
other events during Easter weekend.



-----------------------------
PARTY LOCATION AND FACILITIES
-----------------------------
The location for Outline 2006 is:

Recreatieoord "de Panoven"
Panovenweg 18
6905DW Zevenaar
The Netherlands
http://www.panoven.com

Zevenaar is a small city in the east of
Holland, only minutes from the German
border. Town centre is about 1500m from
the party location and the railway
station is 800m.

"De Panoven" holiday resort is a
well-preserved industrial heritage
estate dating from 1860. The kiln and 
and associated buildings have been
transformed into a museum and a group
accomodation.

You can find a number of affordable
restaurants at walking distance from
the partyplace in Zevenaar city centre.
We will also arrange a pizza delivery
service, and ofcourse you can buy cooled
drinks for reasonable prices at the
partyplace.

The conference halls are equipped with
suitable audio equipment and beamer. 
There's a table and chair for every
visitor, and some relaxing benches as
well (how many will depend slightly on
the number of visitors). Those who
visited PMP will be happy to hear 
there's a kitchen table, possibilities
for a campfire, and, for the first time
since 1999, a pond for the PMP duckies.
You can once again put up a tent or
caravan outside the party place if you
prefer that over the sleeping facilities
provided by the organisation.



-------
TICKETS
-------

A ticket for the entire party (4 days
and 3 nights) costs:
- Presales                       45 EURO
- At the door                    55 EURO

A single day ticket (valid for 24 hours
excluding the sleeping area) costs:
- Presales                       12 EURO
- At the door                    15 EURO


PLEASE NOTICE:

It is possible to rent private sleeping
facilities for groups of 2 upto 10 
individuals for a reasonable price.
Contact Havoc for a price quote. If you
do not make such reservations, the
organisers will assign you to a sleeping
place based on the date you payed your
ticket (those who pay first will be
assigned to the more luxurious
facilities ofcourse).

There are no discounts possible on the
entry fees except those mentioned above.
Presales tickets must be payed in
advance.

We realize that these prices may be
slightly higher than sceners got used to
in recent years. This is mainly because
the party is held at a commercial
location, unlike previous parties which
were usually in schools, universities or
clubhouses. We are convinced that the
facilities offered by such a location
will compensate for the higher fee.

We would also like to stress that even
though the party location is commercial,
the organising team is working on a 
strictly non-profit base. Any profit the
party will generate will flow directly 
into the competition prize fund, and any
money left after the competitions will
be donated to a worthy cause. For
example, after Outline 2005 we donated
the leftover pennies to Outline 2006. 


----------------
ORDERING TICKETS
----------------
You can order tickets five ways:

- By transferring the correct amount
  to the following bank account:

  Account holder: Peter van Rijn
  Account number: 8296429
  Bank name: Postbank, The Netherlands

- By sending the correct amount to the
  following address:

  Peter van Rijn
  Jekerstraat 164
  7523 VT Enschede
  The Netherlands

  You can send currencies other than 
  euros, but please make sure to send
  enough to cover exchange fees. Please
  do not send coins, we will give back
  change cash when you arrive at the
  partyplace. Please refer to your local
  post office for appropriate insurance
  options.

- By paying cash to one of the
  organisers. 

- By pre-order. This option is only
  available if none of the other options
  work for you, and you have met at
  least one of the organisers face to
  face. People known to the organisers
  can order tickets for unknown persons
  though.

  The e-mail address for pre-orders is:

  p.vanrijn (at) home.nl

- We are currently reviewing the 
  possibility and demand to set up a 
  PayPal account in order to make online
  payment possible. Please inform the
  organisers if you are interested in
  this option.

- By PayPal. For credit card payments,
please use:

p.vanrijn (at) home.nl

Please add 3.4 pct + 0,35EUR to cover 
the PayPal fee.

For PayPal to PayPal (fee-less) 
transfers, you can try:

pvrijn (at) hotmail.com

If you try to use the fee-less option,
please keep in mind that we cannot 
possibly accept transfers that involve
fees, because that would force us to 
upgrade our account- effectively 
rendering it useless for any further
fee-less transfer. Thank you for your
understanding.

In all cases, please mention the names,
nicks and e-mail adresses of the people
you are buying tickets for.

After receiving your payment, we will
send you a confirmation of your 
reservation by e-mail.


----------
TRAVELLING
----------
By plane: The preferred airport for
travelling to this party is Amsterdam/
Schiphol. Flights from nearly every
major airport on the planet arrive there
on a daily basis, and travelling from
the airport to the partyplace is easy
because of the excellent railway
connections. A trainticket from Schiphol
to the partyplace costs 16.50 Euro. 

Other nearby airports include:
- Niederrhein
- Rotterdam
- Eindhoven
- Duesseldorf
- Muenster/Osnabrueck
- Dortmund

The organisers can provide you with
information on how to get from any of
these airports to the partyplace.
Contact us for details.

Please contact the organisers if you
need any assistance regarding flights to
the party or extending your stay in the
Netherlands.

http://www.lowcostairlines.nl/

By train: The railwaystation "Zevenaar"
is located at 800m distance from the
partyplace. A map will be placed on our
website soon.

By car:

From the East: Get on the highway from
Oberhausen (Germany) to Arnhem (A3/E35).
Take the first exit (30) after the
border, this is right after you pass the
former customs facility. Follow 
directions for "Babberich" to the left.
After passing two viaducts, you will
reach a T-junction. Follow the sign to
the right for "Babberich". First you
will drive through the village of 
Babberich, then a roundabout (straight
on here). At the second roundabout, turn
to the right so you pass under the
viaduct. You are now driving along a
railroad- keep doing that until you see
the railwaystation. When you see the
railwaystation, turn left at the first
opportunity (the second and third are OK
too). Drive straight ahead until you
reach the T-junction with the
"Zuiderlaan". Turn left here, and follow
the "Zuiderlaan" (almost) until the end
where you can turn to the right to the
"Panovenweg". Pass two streets to the
left and follow the "Panovenweg" to the
right until you see "de Panoven".
Welcome! 

From the West: Get on the highway from
Arnhem to Oberhausen (A12/E35). Take the
exit for Zevenaar (29). Turn to the
right at the trafficlights. Drive into
Zevenaar and turn to the left at the
first trafficlight. Keep following the
road you're on, passing 4 roundabouts
straight ahead, and then drive over the
viaduct. At the roundabout directly 
after the viaduct, turn to the left so
you pass under the viaduct. You are now
driving along a railroad- keep doing
that until you see the railwaystation.
When you see the railwaystation, turn
left at the first opportunity (the
second and third are OK too). Drive
straight ahead until you reach the
T-junction with the "Zuiderlaan". Turn
left here, and follow the "Zuiderlaan"
(almost) until the end where you can
turn to the right to the "Panovenweg".
Pass two streets to the left and follow
the "Panovenweg" to the right until you
see "de Panoven". Welcome!


-----------
PARTY RULES
-----------
First of all, we would like to say we
have a lot of confidence in the visitors
we are inviting to this party. Some of
the organisers have been going to
parties for more than a decade, and in
all those years the number of
unacceptable incidents has been
negligible.

However, we feel that setting a few
clear guidelines will help everyone to
make the party even more enjoyable.

- The organisers are very tolerant, but
  there are limits. Please treat other
  people and their property with
  respect. Illegal and/or destructive
  behaviour will not be accepted and can
  lead to removal from the party. 

- No smoking in the main hall or 
  sleeping area. Please step outside or
  use the reserved spaces as appointed
  by the organisation. Weather allowing,
  chairs and benches are allowed to be
  taken outside to the terrace.

- Do not use electric waterboilers,
  microwaves, barbecues and other
  devices that could possibly endanger
  the stability of computer systems
  within the partyplace. Please contact
  the organisers before setting up such
  equipment.

- We are only renting part of the space
  available at "de Panoven". Please do
  not install systems or sleep in areas
  other than the main hall or the
  sleeping area.

Thank you for your participation in
making this party a success.


-------------------
CONTACT INFORMATION
-------------------
Mail address:

Outline 2006
Peter van Rijn
Jekerstraat 164
7523 VT Enschede

E-mail: 

p.vanrijn (at) home.nl

Telephone/SMS:

+31-6-41148027 (International)
06-41148027 (The Netherlands)
(also during the party)

Website:

http://outline.scene.nl/2006/

IRC:

#atariscne on IRCNet
#scene.nl on IRCNet


-----------
FINAL WORDS
-----------
We hope this invitation text will
provide you with a lot of useful
information about attending our party.
Feel free to ask the organisers for
further details if you need them for any
reason.

See you soon in Zevenaar!

Outline 2006 Organisation Team

200 pct CODERS
Limp Ninja
Lineout
Nostalgia
The Sirius Cybernetics Corporation
