.TH Slbopen 2 "Programmer's Manual" "" "1998-10-20"
.SH NAME
Slbopen, Slbclose \- shared library functions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
typedef void *SLB;
typedef long (*SLB_EXEC) (SLB *slb, long fn, int params, ...);

long Slbopen( const char *name, const char *path, long min_ver,
     SLB *slb, SLB_EXEC *slbexec);

long Slbclose( SLB slb);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Slbopen
attaches the shared library
.IR name
from memory or from the directory
.IR path 
with a minimal version number of
.IR min_ver .
.IR slb
and
.IR slbexec
will be set to the shared library descriptor and the shared library
entry point. The call returns a negative error code or the (positive)
version number of the loaded shared library.
.PP
The shared library may be closed explicitly with
.I Slbclose
before the process exits. No parameter validation is done for
.I slb
(passing an invalid descriptor will result in undefined behaviour).

.IP name
is the name of the shared library. The recommended extension is `slb'.
Currently the name comparison is case independent, but it is recommended
to use the same case in both the library header and the
.I Slbopen
call for compatibility with future versions. Also note that
.IR name
must not contain the path.

.IP path
is the path in which the shared library is located. When not found here or
if a NULL was passed the library will be searched in a default list of 
locations specified by the environment variable SLBPATH.

Note that the library might use the path during the init call to locate 
additional files -- it depends on the particular library whether or not it is 
able to process a relative path specification properly.


.IP min_ver
is the minimal version number of the library to load. It is implementation
dependent whether
.I Slbopen
will attempt to load a shared library from a different place if the
first library found is too old (the SLBLOAD.OVL for MetaDOS will
attempt to do this).

.IP slb
is the descriptor for the shared library, to be used in library calls and
when closing the shared library with
.I Slbclose .

.IP slbexec
is the library entry point.

.PP
Library calls are done through the returned
.I slbexec
function pointer. The calling convention is identical to GEMDOS
(register preservation and parameter passing on the stack).

.IP slb
is the shared library descriptor returned by Slbopen.

.IP params
is the total size of additional parameters passed on the stack, counted in
16 bit words.





.IP fn
is the index of the shared library function. If a non existent library
function is called,
.I slbexec
will return EINVFN (this can happen when
.I fn
is too high or the associated function pointer in the shared library is
NULL).

.SH IMPLEMENTATION
.I Slbopen
and
.I Slbclose
are GEMDOS calls 0x16 and 0x17.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP SLBPATH
List of paths in which to look for shared libraries. The entries are
separated by ',' or ';'.

.SH RETURNS
.IP positive
The version number of the loaded shared library (may be 0).
.IP EINVFN
This GEMDOS does not support shared libraries, or the called shared library
function does not exist.
.IP EFILNF
Shared library not found.
.IP EPLFMT
Not a valid GEMDOS program file or shared library magic missing from header.
.IP ERANGE
Wrong version number (library too old).
.IP EXCPT
Shared library crashed during startup.
.IP other
Other negative error codes may also be returned.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
slb (5)

