.TH listen 3 "MiNT-Net"
.SH NAME
listen \- listen for connections on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.PP
.B "int listen(int s, int backlog);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
To accept connections, a socket is first created with
.IR socket (3),
a queue for incoming connections is specified with
.IR listen (3)
and then connections are accepted with
.IR accept (3).
.I listen
applies only to unconnected sockets of type
.SM SOCK_STREAM.
For sockets in the address family
.SM AF_UNIX
the socket
.I must
be bound to an address with
.IR bind (3)
before connection establishment can continue, otherwise an
.SM EDESTADDRREQ
error is returned.
.PP
The listen queue is established for the socket specified by the
.I s
parameter, which is a socket descriptor.
.PP
.I backlog
defines the maximum allowable length of the queue for pending connections.
If a connection request arrives when the queue is full,
the client receives an
.SM ETIMEDOUT
error.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If the call is successful, 0 is returned.
If the call fails, \-1 is
returned and an error code is stored in
.BR errno .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I listen
fails if:
.TP 20
.SM [EBADF]
The argument
.I s
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.SM [EDESTADDRREQ]
No bind address was established.
.TP
.SM [EOPNOTSUPP]
The socket is not of a type that supports the
.I listen
operation.
.TP
.SM [EINVAL]
The socket has been shut down or is already connected.
The argument
.I s
is not a socket.
.SH SEE ALSO
accept(3),
connect(3),
socket(3).
