.TH recvmsg 3 "MiNT-Net"
.SH NAME
recvmsg \- receive a message on a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.PP
.B "int recvmsg(int s, struct msghdr *msg, int flags);"
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I recvmsg
is used to receive a message from another socket.
.I s
is a socket descriptor that specifies the socket
on which the message will be received.
.I msg
points to an object of type
.B struct\ msghdr
into which the received message will be placed.
.B struct\ msghdr
is explained below.
.PP
.I recvmsg
operates the same way as
.IR recvfrom ,
except that it is able to scatter the data into
the
.B msg_iov
member of
.BR "struct\ msghdr" .
Note that receiving of access rights is not implemented.
Do not rely on this behavior,
because it might change in the future.
.PP
.B struct\ msghdr
is defined in
.RB < sys/socket.h >, 
and has the following form :
.IP
.nf
struct msghdr {
	void	*msg_name;	/* optional address */
	size_t	msg_namelen;	/* size of address  */
	struct iovec *msg_iov;	/* scatter array for data */
	size_t	msg_iovlen;	/* # of elements in msg_iov */
	void    *msg_accrights;	/* access rights */
	size_t	msg_accrightslen; /* size of msg_accrights */
}
.fi
.PP
.I msg_name
contains the source address of the message;
.I msg_name 
may be a null pointer if you are not interested in this information.
.I msg_iov 
is the location of the scatter data.
.I msg_accrights
specifies a buffer to receive any access rights along 
with the message.
Transfer of access rights is not implemented,
so you should
set the msg_acccrights field to
.SM NULL
indicating that access rights are not being transferred. 
.PP
See
.I recvfrom(3)
to learn more about the behavior of
.IR recvmsg .
.SH RETURN VALUE
If the
.I recvmsg
call is successful, it returns the number of bytes received.
If the call fails, \-1 is returned and an error code is stored in
.BR errno .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The call to
.I recvmsg
fail if:
.RS
.TP 20
.SM [EBADF]
The argument
.I s
is an invalid descriptor.
.TP
.SM [EINVAL]
The argument
.I s
is not a socket.
The
.I msg
parameter contains invalid members.
.TP
.SM [ENOMEM]
There is insufficient buffer space to send the message.
.TP
.SM [EINTR]
The receive was interrupted by delivery of a signal
before any data was available for the receive.
.TP
.SM [ENOTCONN]
Receive on a
.SM SOCK_STREAM
socket that is not yet connected.
.TP
.SM [EOPNOTSUPP]
The
.SM MSG_OOB
or
.SM MSG_PEEK
flag was set for any
.SM AF_UNIX
socket.
Neither
.SM MSG_PEEK
nor
.SM MSG_OOB
is supported
for
.SM AF_UNIX
sockets.
.SH SEE ALSO
getsockopt(3),
select(3),
recv(3),
recvfrom(3),
socket(3).
