.TH shutdown 3 "MiNT-Net"
.SH NAME
shutdown \- shut down a socket
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.PP
.B "int shutdown(int s, int how);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I shutdown
library call is used to shut down a socket.
In the case of a full-duplex connection,
.I shutdown
can be used to either partially or fully shut down the socket,
depending upon the value of
.IR how :
.sp
.nf
0	Further receives are disallowed
1	Further sends are disallowed
2	Further sends and receives are disallowed
.fi
.PP
The
.I s
parameter is a socket descriptor for the socket to be shut down.
.PP
Once the socket has been shut down for receives, all further
.IR recv (3)
calls return an end-of-file condition.
A socket that has been shut down for sending causes further
.IR send (3)
calls to return an
.SM EPIPE
error and send the
.SM SIGPIPE
signal.
After a socket has been fully shut down, operations other than
.IR recv (3)
and
.IR send (3)
return appropriate errors,
and the only other thing that can be done to the socket is a
.IR close (3).
.PP
Multiple shutdowns on a connected socket and shutdowns on a socket
that is not connected might not return errors.
.PP
A
.I shutdown
on a connectionless socket, such as
.SM SOCK_DGRAM,
only marks the socket as unable to do further
.IR send (3)
or
.IR recv (3)
calls, depending upon
.IR how .
Once this type of socket has been disabled
for both sending and receiving data,
it becomes fully shut down.
For
.SM SOCK_STREAM
sockets, if
.I how
is
.B 1 or
.BR 2 ,
the connection begins to be closed gracefully
in addition to the normal actions.
However, the
.I shutdown
call does not wait for the completion of the graceful disconnection.
The disconnection is complete
when both sides of the connection have done a
.I shutdown
with
.I how
equal to
.B 1 or
.BR 2 .
Once the connection has been completely terminated,
the socket becomes fully shut down.
The
.SM SO_LINGER
option (see
.IR socket (3))
does not have any meaning for the
.I shutdown
call, but does for the
.IR close (3)
call.
For more information on how the
.IR close (3)
call interacts with sockets, see
.IR socket (3).
.PP
If a
.I shutdown
is performed on a
.SM SOCK_STREAM
socket that has a
.IR listen (3)
pending on it, that socket becomes fully shut down when
.I how
= 1.
.SH RETURN VALUE
If the call is successful, 0 is returned.
If it fails, \-1 is returned and an error code is stored in
.BR errno .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The
.I shutdown
call fails if:
.TP 15
[EBADF]
.I s
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
[EINVAL]
The socket is already fully shut down.
.I s
is not a socket descriptor.
.SH SEE ALSO
close(3),
connect(3),
socket(3).
