           VIGILANTE V1.0
           --------------

           by James Ingram


This is a virus killer.  Oh No!  Not 
another  one,  surely?   But I  have 
never seen one like vigilante...

Vigilante has a unique (as far as  I 
know) feature.   It can kill viruses 
FROM  MEMORY.   This means  that  if 
you've  got   a nasty  dose  of  the 
Ghost  virus,  you  DO NOT  need  to 
reset   your  machine;    just   run 
VIGILANTE,  and the Ghost virus  can 
be killed.   From then on,  it  will 
not replicate any more.

It  recognises  only  a  handful  of 
viruses   and   other   bootsectors, 
because:

a) these are all I've come across
b) I'm too lazy to put in more

So, it can recognize:

     Signum/BPL
     KOBOLD
     Ghost
     Green Goblins

as  well as a few  anti-viruses  and 
protectors.

Any  suspicious  bootsector  can  be 
VIEWED.


Another   little  feature   is   the 
ability  to "UNEXEC"  a  bootsector.  
If  you are unsure of  a  bootsector 
which   is   suspicious,   use   the 
"UNEXEC"   option.    Re-boot   your 
machine  with the disk in  question.  
If the disk still works  fine,  then 
the  bootsector is not  needed,  and 
can be protected.

If  the disk suddenly doesn't  work, 
then you can make it better again by 
using the "EXEC" option.


When  run  as a  desktop  accessory, 
VIGILANTE  will  check  every   disk 
which  is put in.   The screen  will 
flash  red if it has a known  virus, 
or yellow if it is suspicious.   You 
can let VIGILANTE automatically kill 
known viruses for you if you wish.
This is good if you are well and truly
infected - you can let VIGILANTE
clean your disks as you work - a red
flash will be shown, and the disk will
be cleaned if possible.

There are two type of memory check;
long and short.  The long check is
included because KOBOLD can be anywhere
in memory.
If you do not have the long check, KOBOLD
will never be looked for.  If you are
infected by KOBOLD, then leave this on!




One  last thing - VIGILANTE can  run 
as  a .PRG or a .ACC file - it's  up 
to you.   Just remember that when it 
is a .PRG,  it will not check  every 
disk as it is used.



Disclamer
---------

Usual thing - I use this program OK, 
but you use it entirely at your  own 
risk  - if it messes up your  entire 
disk collection, tough!

Be  sensible,  though  -  DON'T  use 
UNEXEC   when  there  is   a   virus 
resident, and BE CAREFUL!

Disks  which are  SUSPICIOUS  should 
NEVER  be PROTECTED unless  you  are 
COMPLETELY sure that it is OK to  do 
so!


James Ingram
December 1993
